With your diet during pregnancy, you're
programming your baby's DNA. And this is
going to have an impact on your baby's
development and on their future risk of
disease. And there's a lot of pregnant
moms who are eating a diet that's not
giving them the nutrients their baby
needs. This is not the mom's fault. This
is the fault of our food system. This is
the fault of society. And nobody's
telling moms about this. And I wanted to
create this guide to help parents
navigate that food system and see easy
things they can do to help their baby's
development. And I know this because as
a biochemist when I became pregnant, I
just went deep, deep, deep into the
research. And there are some main things
that I learned. For example, 90% of moms
are not getting enough choline during
pregnancy. And choline is super
important. It forms your baby's brain in
the womb. So this is the amount of eggs
that I ate per week during the 9 months
of pregnancy because this is the
simplest way to give enough choline to
our baby. And then your baby needs no
fructose during pregnancy. So sugar from
dessert, from chocolate, from muffins,
from cupcakes, your baby needs none of
this. Because if you have very high
glucose levels [music] during pregnancy,
scientists have found that your baby's
DNA will have epigenetic switches that
are programming them towards having a
higher vulnerability to develop
diabetes, obesity, and psychiatric
disorders. Next, this is basically the
amount of protein that I needed to eat
every single day in the third trimester
of pregnancy.
>> Yeah. because the studies show low
protein diets [music] lead to smaller
babies and potentially this epigenetic
programming of staying smaller
throughout life. And it's findings like
that that led me to create a plan and
simple hacks for pregnant moms and we
can talk about them.
>> And then what does the research say
about breastfeeding, exercise, caffeine
and also do you recommend that mothers
take certain supplements? [music]
>> So this is what people need to know.
>> [music]
>> Jesse Inchospay, the glucose goddess.
For people that don't know who you are,
what have you spent the best part of the
last decade committing your life to and
why?
>> My work started in the glucose space,
meaning the blood sugar space. I was
showing people how blood sugar impacts
all of us on a daily basis. the spikes
and dips after we eat, they lead to
inflammation, faster aging, cravings,
fatigue, and it's been the basis of my
work because glucose matters for
everybody and it is the core of a
healthy body and mind. And so that's
where I started because it's so
important.
>> We last spoke almost two years ago now.
>> What have you learned in those last two
years that has evolved your own thinking
or has developed your own thinking in
any way? If we reflect on the last
conversations we had around glucose
spikes and sugar and the health
consequences and diets, is there
anything you've learned in those two
years that is interesting and new?
>> Oh, absolutely. I think mostly the
impact of glucose on mood and on
relationships. For example, there's this
fascinating study that took married
couples and they gave the husband and
the wives a little voodoo doll
representing their spouse. And the
researchers told uh the participants to
put a little pin in the voodoo doll
every time their spouse annoyed them. At
the end of the two weeks, the
researchers counted the number of pins
in the voodoo dolls. And they also
measured the participants glucose
levels. They found that the people who
had the most glucose lows had put the
most pins in the voodoo doll
representing their spouse.
>> Wow.
>> So, it's just an association, but it's
interesting. And scientists then found
that when you have very unsteady glucose
levels, it impacts this neurotransmitter
in your brain called tyrrosine that
manages your mood. So it seems that with
unsteady glucose levels, your mood is
less stable, which could then correlate
to you being more annoyed at your
spouse. So I think studies like this
have really blown my mind.
>> What's going on when we go through a
glucose crash, per se?
>> So glucose is your body's energy. So
your brain is constantly monitoring how
much glucose do we have in our
bloodstream. And steady glucose is
great. When your glucose levels crash,
this indicates biologically that you're
out of fuel. And this is a powerful
signal to your body and your brain to
say, "Alert, alert. We need food. We
need more glucose." And so it creates
all these downstream consequences on
your mood. You become hangry. All you
think about is food. You're in a bad
mood. You're like, "I need to eat
something." You look for a banana. You
look for a cookie. It can also activate
the craving center in your brain that
says, "Stephen, go find some chocolate."
And science has shown this. Low glucose
levels creates a cascade of consequences
on how we feel and what we seek. Now,
what's interesting is that back in the
day when we had low glucose levels, I'm
talking like huntergatherer times, they
wouldn't arrive so quickly because we
didn't have these big spikes that then
led to these big drastic drops. It was
more we ate in a more balanced way with
less sugar obviously. So when our
glucose became low, it was a bit more
gradual. Today, because we have access
to all this sugar, we can spike our
glucose very quickly and as a result, it
then crashes very quickly. So the
effects are pretty much immediate and
they're very intense. All of a sudden,
you go from feeling okay to your brain
being in alert mode. We need to find
more fuel. So we've disregulated our
glucose levels to the point where it's
impacting us in a very unnatural way.
>> Is that in part because we modify our
food, even fruit? When I looked back
through the history of fruit, apples,
bananas, etc., looked extremely
different before they were modified to
be juicier and sweeter, etc.
>> Completely. It's like dogs. So, all the
the dog breeds today, from Chihuahua to
golden retrievers, they all come from
wolves. Humans have been breeding wolves
together to create these different
species of dogs. They all have that
ancestor of the grey wolf. So, humans
are very good at breeding natural things
to serve their purposes. And when it
comes to fruit, it's the same thing. So,
as you say, if you compare like an
ancestral banana or an ancestral apple
to a modern one, they look completely
different. And you should pull up these
photos. They're fascinating. Ancestral
banana, tiny, full of fiber, full of
seeds, not very sweet. And then, modern
banana, full of sugar, low in fiber,
really easy to eat. So, that's the first
thing people need to know about fruit.
Fruit is not natural. Fruit is the
product of human engineering. However, a
piece of whole fruit also contains fiber
and water. So even though it's been bred
to have a lot of sugar, the fiber in the
water reduce how quickly the sugar
arrives in our bloodstream, making it
more or less okay for us. But the
problem comes when we denature that
piece of fruit. Meaning if we remove the
fiber, for example, if we take an orange
and make an orange juice, what are we
actually talking about here? Actually,
oranges are not even a natural fruit.
They were invented thousands of years
ago by breeding by crossing other
species of fruit. To make an orange
juice, you throw away part of the
orange. you throw away the solid part,
which is the fiber. So, you're left with
the sugar of a very sugary fruit, water,
and no fiber. As a result, you're
getting a very unnatural amount of sugar
in your bloodstream with no fiber to
protect the spike. So, a big big glucose
spike. And people often say, "Oh, well,
you know, fruit has vitamins in it, so
therefore orange juice must be better
for you than Coca-Cola." That's actually
a total myth. If you compare a glass of
orange juice to a glass of Coca-Cola,
it's the same amount of sugar, about 25
grams. And the sugar in the can of Coke
and the sugar in the glass of orange
juice, they're exactly the same. They're
glucose and fructose molecules. And your
body absorbs them in the exact same way.
Your body does not make a difference
between sugar from an orange and sugar
from a sugar beat that's now in a can of
Coca-Cola. I I hope that orange juice
disappears from school lunches, from
hospital meals. The World Health
Organization recommends 25 grams of
sugar per day or less. So with just one
glass of orange juice in the morning
that you squeeze at home that you think
is good for you, you're already at the
maximum limit of sugar recommendation.
And most people drink this glass of
orange juice thinking it's good for
them. Most people with diabetes drink
this glass of orange juice thinking it's
helping them with their condition. And
that's really where I want to act. I
want to help people understand what they
actually need to do to feel better so
they don't fall victim to marketing. We
talked there about glucose crashes and
what that causes in terms of behavior. I
was wondering if also causes other
compulsive behaviors.
>> Does it make me more likely to want to
doom scroll on the internet if I have
been eating lots of sugar?
>> Well, that's a great question. Why does
sugar feel good? Because it releases
dopamine in our brain. Dopamine is the
pleasure molecule. It makes us feel
good. So if I were to drink this glass
of orange juice, which you would have to
pay me a lot of money for me to drink
this, but my brain would let out so many
dopamine molecules and I would feel this
wave of pleasure. Now the problem is
people confuse that with energy. It's
not energy, it's dopamine. And dopamine
is the same exact molecule that gets
released when you're scrolling on
Instagram. You look for the next post,
you look for the next video. Every time
you get something new and interesting,
bam, a dopamine signal as well in your
brain. So if you're constantly
triggering dopamine in your brain,
you're going to constantly crash. You're
going to have dopamine spikes, dopamine
crashes, and become more and more
addicted to it. So I don't know about
studies showing glucose spikes, and for
example, doom scrolling, but if you look
at just the biology of it, they're
triggering the same center in your
brain. So for sure, I can imagine that
if you are on a dopamine binging or
dopamine addiction cycle, both an orange
juice and a glucose spike and doom
scrolling can go hand in hand. I was
just looking at some research here and
it says yes, you're significantly more
likely to doom scroll during a glucose
crash. And it explains that that's
because of something called the energy
crisis in the prefrontal cortex where
your prefrontal cortex, the part of the
brain responsible for willpower and
decision-m and saying no to things like
doom scrolling in the case where glucose
drops. This area is first to dim the
lights to save energy for vital
functions. The result is you lose your
executive function, making it nearly
impossible to resist the hit of dopamine
that social media provides. But it also
says the second reason is this dopamine
trap. And the third is generally your
emotional regulation goes out of the
window. I I think this in part because I
notice in myself that when I am on a
higher glucose diet, I'm more likely to
get involved in like compulsive
behaviors that I otherwise don't like.
>> Yeah.
>> Like doom scrolling on the internet.
>> You have less willpower, less control.
>> Yeah. I have less willpower.
>> You feel more addicted.
>> Yeah. Like I have less control over my
life.
>> And the first thing that people notice
is that when they are on a glucose
roller coaster, they feel addicted to
sugar. like it's no longer a choice to
go after that cookie. It feels like a
compulsive behavior like I need sugar
right now because that glucose crash is
triggering a biological mechanism that
is nearly impossible to override. So
when you tell somebody just eat less
sugar, that's that's BS. You can't just
eat less sugar. You have to go fix the
underlying cause, which is usually the
glucose crash. You can't override that
feeling of craving that comes from deep
inside your brain when you have a
glucose crash. You need to fix the
spike, reduce the spike, and then
naturally the spike also reduces and you
feel fewer cravings. There's this theory
called the protein leverage hypothesis.
And this this theory says that your body
will keep you hungry and keep you
seeking food until you've given it
enough protein. So if in the morning you
have uh I don't know some oats and toast
and jam, very little protein, your
body's [snorts] going to be like, "Okay,
we didn't get any protein. We need to
get more protein." So you stay more and
more hungry. At 10 a.m. you're hungry
again. If you have a cookie again, no
protein. Your body will keep you hungry.
If all of a sudden you have 40 grams of
protein, then that craving dissipates
and that feeling of seeking out food
sort of calms down because your body got
what he actually needed, which was
protein.
>> People send you lots of messages. You
have a enormous online following. If I
was to peer into those DMs you get, what
would be the essence of what people are
saying to you?
>> They're asking me about specific foods.
They're saying, "Are lentils okay? Can I
eat three eggs a day? what kind of
vinegar should I use? And often it's
people trying to navigate the marketing
messages they're seeing on the packaging
of things. They'll be like, "This can of
tea that says 0 grams of sugar, is it
good for me?" They're trying to decode
what these food products actually
contain and whether they're actually
good for them.
>> And is there any real standout marketing
messages that are deceptive?
>> Yeah. [sighs]
No added sugars. That is so deceptive
because this glass of orange juice has
no added sugars in it because the sugar
was there at the beginning. It came from
the orange from the original ingredient.
So on a can of orange juice, you can say
no added sugar even though it contains
25 grams of sugar, which is the maximum
limit the WHO recommends for your daily
sugar intake. So that's a really really
bad one. Another one would be something
that says gluten-free or vegan. It's not
because it's gluten-free vegan that it's
good for you. But we're being tricked.
You know, food manufacturers do
everything they can to make you buy
their products.
>> I think I'm in the season of life where
I'm thinking a lot about fertility, both
my fertility, my fiance's f fertility,
and how my diet, the things I eat has an
impact on that. What what what is it we
need to know about? you know, if we're
trying to conceive, if we want to have
we want to have a family, um, is it
really the case that I need to start
thinking about my own fertility in the
leadup to putting that sperm into that
egg?
>> Yes, both the males and the females need
to be thinking about fertility and
nutrition plays a big role and health
plays a big role in the quality of your
sperm, for example. So, a good idea
would be to reduce before you want to
have a kid, if you're the man, you know,
reduce alcohol, exercise more, eat
better so that your sperm are high
quality. So, the sperm turnover is about
three months. So, if you do like a
three-month sort of intense uh my sperm
are getting in shape kind of situation,
it's a good idea. For women, it's
different. So, our eggs are present from
before we're born. But the quality of
our diet, of our nutrient reserves, is
going to impact our ability to have kids
also, and it's going to impact what our
baby gets in the first trimester of
pregnancy.
>> You've just given birth
>> eight months ago. Yeah. Feels like just
last week, but yeah, eight months ago.
And um I guess that's somewhat linked to
why you've written this new book which
is titled Nine Months That Count
Forever: How Your Pregnancy Diet Shapes
Your Baby's Future. You could have
written about anything, Jesse, and
people would have bought the book. Um
because people are so fascinated by you
and the work that you do. Why of all the
subjects you could have written about
was this the subject that meant the most
to you to commit a long period of your
life to? because it is a subject where
there's such a big gap, Stephen, between
what science knows and what parents are
told.
It felt like there was a just canyon
between information in the studies
that's been there for decades and what I
as a pregnant woman went through and
what advice I was given, what's
available out there to pregnant moms.
So, even though I was pregnant and I was
tired, I felt I need to write this book
because people need to know the power
that they have. So today, science knows
that you're not just an oven when you're
pregnant. Have you heard this thing,
being a bun in the oven? It's an
American expression.
>> Uh I think I've heard it once or twice.
Yeah.
>> Okay. So often if you're pregnant,
people will say, "Oh, you have a bun in
the oven. That's so cute." It's like an
expression. And I feel like this is
where all of our problems started
because it implies so many misleading
things. It implies that when you're
pregnant, you are an oven, meaning
you're just there to provide heat and
time. And people often say just relax,
you know, let nature do its thing. So it
implies that you're passive, that you
have no agency, no power. You're just a
vessel of heat and time. That's the
first problem. The second problem is
that it implies that just like a
chocolate cake that you put in the oven,
it implies that your baby, the moment
the sperm meets the egg, your baby is
set in stone. Like if you're making a
cake, when you make the brownie and you
put it in the oven, the oven is not
going to change the brownie into banana
bread. The oven is just cooking the
brownie. Well, actually, it's very
different with pregnancy. Your baby is
not set in stone at conception. What
happens during the nine months of
pregnancy is co-creating your baby's
plan, and depending on what you eat, a
different baby will come out. So, we've
been lying to pregnant moms, telling
them they have no agency, they have no
power, they should just relax and let
nature do its thing. So, that's why I
wrote this book because the science is
fascinating.
>> So, where where are pregnant women being
let down in this regard? Is it that
there's just not enough information out
there? Is there's there's not been
enough research out there? Is it bad
advice currently on the internet?
>> This is the fault of our food system.
This is the fault of society. This is a
fault of the food industry that we were
just talking about. The marketing
messages for everybody today in
developed countries. We are being fed
processed unhealthy foods that are
hurting us. Whether we get diabetes or
heart disease, there is a link to food.
And today, even pregnant moms are being
let down by the food system and are
eating a diet without knowing it that's
not giving them the nutrients their baby
needs. So, the moment I became pregnant
the first time, I started researching. I
went to Google Scholar and I just opened
about a thousand tabs on my computer,
which is usually what I do when I'm
researching a new topic. And I looked at
the big review studies, the metaanalyses
of how nutrition during pregnancy
impacts our baby's development. I read
probably 2,000 scientific papers. And I
just went deep, deep, deep into the
research. And out of it, I saw these
four big themes coming out of these four
nutrients that most moms are not getting
enough of in their diet or too much of
in their diet. And I wanted to create
this guide to help parents navigate that
food system and see easy things they can
do in the mom's diet to help their
baby's development. So while your baby's
DNA is set the moment the sperm meets
the egg with your diet during pregnancy,
you're programming that DNA. Have you
heard of epigenetics?
>> Yes.
>> Okay. So epigenetics are like these
little dimmer switches that sit on your
DNA and that say activate this gene or
silence this gene. And so during
pregnancy, you're putting these little
switches on your baby's DNA. And this is
going to have an impact on your baby's
development and on his future risk of
disease. I'll give you a very simple
example. If you have very high glucose
levels during pregnancy, scientists have
found that your baby's DNA will have
epigenetic switches that are programming
him towards having a higher
vulnerability to develop diabetes
himself in his lifetime. So if you have
high glucose levels, your baby will be
programmed to be more likely to then
have high glucose levels himself
throughout his life as a kid, a
teenager, and an adult. That's
epigenetic programming. And depending on
your diet as the mom, you can program
your kids differently. But nobody tells
moms about this. And that's what I'm
trying to change.
>> What do I need to know as someone that
knows very little about pregnancy to
really understand the like basics of
what's going on?
>> What time frame matters? What happens
when?
>> So females have a uterus, which is an
organ, and the uterus is where the baby
develops. And the uterus grows as
pregnancy progresses. And then when you
give birth, the baby comes out of the
uterus, and the uterus stays in the mom.
So that's important.
When conception happens, so you have the
sperm meets the egg, that little packet
of cells will implant in one of the
walls of the uterus and start growing.
And pregnancy is divided into three
trimesters. It's about 9 months. So
months 1 to 3 is the first trimester. 4
5 6 is the second trimester. 7 8 9 is
the third trimester. And what we're
going to talk about today is about
nutrition and how your baby's getting
the building blocks that he needs to
develop in your womb as the female.
Because your baby needs to grow from a
single cell to 40 trillion cells by the
time he's born, right? He grows from
like nothing to three or four kilos. And
that has to come from somewhere. It
doesn't just come out of thin air. All
those building blocks, all that matter
is coming from you, from what you're
eating. What you eat becomes your baby.
So your baby is what you eat
>> in the first trimester. Your baby's
getting food from this sort of milk that
your uterus creates. So it's uterine
secretions. And then from the second
trimester onwards, something incredible
happens.
>> When's the second trimester? That's
>> it starts at four months.
>> Okay.
>> And so for the second and third
trimesters, there's another organ that
you create inside your uterus. It's
called the placenta. And the placenta's
job is to bring your baby's bloodstream
and your bloodstream as the mom in
really close contact. And all of a
sudden, symbiosis is established. And
your bloodstream and your baby's
bloodstream are then going to exchange
nutrients and waste. So your baby's
going to get all his nutrition directly
from your bloodstream. And Stephen,
here's a main myth that people believe.
They believe that your baby will just
get what he needs from you during
pregnancy. That's something moms are
told. Don't worry, your baby will get
what he needs from you. This is a lie.
Depending on what you eat, your baby
will have different access to important
nutrients. So, your baby doesn't get
what he needs. He gets what's there and
what you give him. So, let's take a
simple example. One of the nutrients
that is really important is called
choline. Have you heard [clears throat]
about choline before?
>> Is that in eggs?
>> Yes, exactly. It's in the egg yolk. So,
choline is super important. It forms
your baby's brain in the womb. So your
baby your baby's brain has these cells
that are forming called neurons which
are the ones that process information
and choline is important to creating
those neurons and choline creates the
parts of your baby's brain that have to
do with memory, learning and attention.
>> So that egg that you're holding contains
about 125 milligs of choline and it's an
incredible incredible substance.
The thing is, if you don't eat enough
choline, your baby's brain is not going
to get enough choline. And this can have
an impact on the development of your
child. So much so that the American
Association of Pediatrics says failure
to provide choline during this time can
result in lifelong brain deficits in the
baby. Today, 90% of moms are not getting
enough choline during pregnancy. 90% of
moms are not getting enough choline
during pregnancy.
>> Why? because nobody's telling them about
it and because today we don't eat very
nutritious nutritious foods anymore that
contain a lot of choline. They're
present in eggs. So four eggs a day
gives you all the choline that you need.
But choline is also present in organ
meats like liver. Nobody eats liver
anymore. Most [snorts] of the foods that
we eat today, cupcakes, dried fruits,
burgers, chips, they don't contain a lot
of choline. We need to be eating eggs.
This is the simplest way to give enough
choline to our baby. And scientists do
these animal studies where they deprive
moms from choline and they look at the
impact on the brain and they see that
brain development in the baby stops
earlier than it should and those babies
are born with fewer neurons. The amount
of choline in your diet during pregnancy
is going to be impacting your child's
brain development and nobody's telling
moms about this. It's really messed up.
>> So, how many eggs a day do I need to eat
while I'm pregnant to get enough
choline?
>> Four is the golden number. So here I
think we have 28 eggs. So every day
during pregnancy I ate four eggs. So
this is the amount of eggs that I ate
per week during the 9 months of
pregnancy. That's a lot of eggs. But as
I was doing this, I knew I was giving my
baby all the choline that he needed,
which is about 450 milligrams per day.
And this is not very expensive. 28 eggs
is about $7. So for $1 a day, you're
getting all the choline that your baby
needs to form his brain.
Mothers are often told to avoid liver.
>> Yeah.
>> While they're pregnant.
>> Why? Why is that? And you're saying that
that's not the correct advice.
>> So liver contains a lot of vitamin A,
quite high levels of vitamin A. And
there's some older studies that show
that liver and high vitamin A can cause
issues to the baby. That's why liver is
not usually recommended during
pregnancy. I [snorts] would say check
with your doctor. Different countries
have different thresholds of how much
liver is allowed. And honestly, I don't
like liver. So I I prefer to have eggs,
but liver is super super high in
choline. It's quite impressive. You can
also take choline supplements, but eggs
are the cheapest, easiest source. And
for example, in the supplement world, so
scientists have done this study at
Cornell. They gave one group of moms the
bare minimum amount of choline that is
recommended. So 450 milligrams in
supplements. And then they wondered,
well, if a baby's brain needs choline,
what happens if he has a lot of choline
available? does his brain form even
better? So they gave the other group of
mom double the bare minimum recommended
amount. And then they brought the kids
in during their first year of age for
some tests. And the main test that was
used is you basically plop the baby on
his mom's lap in front of a computer
screen and you flash images on that
screen and you measure how quickly the
baby reacts to the new images. So how
quickly he moves his eyes. And the
reason they do this is because this test
is correlated to adult IQ. Meaning the
faster a baby reacts to images in the
first year of age, the higher his adult
IQ. That's the association. And so they
were wondering, could we see a
difference in the baby's reaction time
depending on the mom's choline level in
the womb? And they found that the babies
who were born to the high choline moms
had 10% faster reaction time to this
test. People talk a lot about
breastfeeding as well, whether it's
good, bad, indifferent, um whether you
can breastfeed too much, etc. And
obviously there's um there's lots of
practicalities that make breastfeeding
quite difficult for a lot of mothers,
which we probably should acknowledge.
But
>> otherwise, what is um what does the
research say about breastfeeding?
>> So the difference main difference
between breast milk and formula is that
breast milk is alive. It's alive with
information. It's alive with little
molecules that are going to continue
that DNA programming. Formula is inert.
It It's not alive. It's not doing that
programming. So yes, breastfeeding has
advantages for the mom and for the baby.
But formula is nutritionally complete
and it's very useful for many moms who
are not able or don't want to
breastfeed. And if you're using formula,
you actually have to check because today
not all formulas have choline in them.
So check in the ingredients for choline.
Also check in the ingredients for
omega-3s, which is something that we'll
cover in a bit. Look for that choline
omega-3s in your formula to make sure
that your baby is getting what he needs
in those respects.
>> I was reading about a study in the
pediatric research journal that says a
2013 Dutch study of 12 children found
that less breastfeeding was linked to a
silencing of the gene for leptin,
>> the hormone that signals fullness.
>> So that's a good example of epigenetic
programming. So we have this gene that
codes for leptin, which is a protein.
And leptin is the one of the molecules
that makes you feel full. So you and I
both have this leptin gene, but
depending on our epigenetic programming
on that gene, you might be producing
more of it and I might be producing less
of it. So for the same meal, you might
feel more full and I might feel less
full after that same exact meal. And so
in the study, they saw that if you're
not breastfed very long, your leptin
gene is act deactivated. So you feel
less full after eating. Now, these are
small associations, but they show you
that there's a difference here and that
potentially breastfeeding could help
your baby be more satiated after eating.
>> What about sugar during pregnancy?
>> So, sugar is fascinating.
When you eat sugar, your baby is also
receiving that sugar because that
placenta lets the sugar through. Your
baby doesn't need any sugar during
pregnancy. He needs a little bit of
glucose, which is different. But sugar,
as in the very sweet molecule of
fructose that is in chocolate, that is
in these cupcakes, that is in dried
fruit, your baby needs none of it. And
the most interesting study on sugar in
pregnancy, actually came from the UK. So
from 1940 to 1953, I don't know if you
know this, but in the UK, there was a
governmentmandated
sugar ration, meaning for 13 years, the
government controlled how much sugar
people had access to. It was during the
war and they were trying to manage
resources. So everybody in the UK got 10
sugar cubes per day. That's it. And this
is down from what people usually ate
before the sugar ration, which was about
20 sugar cubes per day. So everybody,
including pregnant moms, for 13 years
had a capped amount of sugar. At the end
of the sugar ration, after 13 years,
bam, everybody went back up to eating
more sugar. And so scientists in the
early 2000s thought, well, that's really
interesting. This means we have two
groups of pregnant moms during the sugar
ration and right after the sugar ration
who had babies develop in their womb
either with 40 grams of sugar per day or
around 80 grams of sugar per day. And
the scientists wondered, can this small
difference be making an impact on the
baby's long-term health? So, they called
up 60,000 people who were born either
just before the ration ended or just
after and they asked them about their
health. They were like, "Do you have
diabetes? Do you have heart disease? How
are you feeling? What's your weight? And
they saw that the babies who were born
and who were in their mother's womb
during the sugar ration had 15%
lower likelihood of having developed
type 2 diabetes in their lifetime. So
what does this mean? It means that the
amount of sugar during pregnancy can be
slightly increasing or decreasing your
baby's vulnerability to getting type two
diabetes later in life. And today
scientists look at the epigenetics of
babies who are born to moms with very
high glucose levels and they see that
the genes that are related to diabetes
are activated. So we have a full picture
now of data. We have epigenetics. We
have this long-term interesting study
and we now see that the amount of sugar
that we eat during pregnancy is subtly
programming our baby. So Stephen, I
don't know if you know this, but when I
was 25, I was on the cusp of
pre-diabetes. I almost had pre-diabetes
when I was 25. had very high glucose
levels. So, I had a vulnerability to
diabetes. And as I was reading the
studies, I was like, "Oh my god, maybe
this has something to do with what my
mother was eating when she was pregnant
with me." Because pregnancy is this
window of outsized influence in
somebody's health. So, I called up my
mom. I was like, "Mom, what do you eat
when you were pregnant?" She was like,
"Oh, it was the ' 90s. You know, I ate
very little protein, very low fat. And
in the morning, every morning, I had a
big glass of orange juice and I had
special case cereal with about a half a
cup of table sugar on top. I was like,
"Huh, that's pretty interesting." So, I
wonder I will never know. I wonder if
maybe my vulnerability to diabetes had
some roots in the womb.
>> And the science suggests that it does
have a correlation.
>> Absolutely. So, the science suggests
that the amount of sugar that you're
eating during pregnancy is having an
impact on your baby's epigenetics. And
today, so as I was mentioning, the WHO
recommends 25 grams of sugar per day,
but most moms are eating 80 grams of
sugar per day. 80 grams, which is
usually more than what they eat when
they're not pregnant because of this
collective myth that you should eat for
two that pregnancy you're going to gain
weight anyway, so eat as much sugar as
you want. Really, we're failing moms
because we're not telling them about the
incredible opportunity they have by just
being a bit mindful of how much sugar
they eat of being able to help their
baby be less vulnerable to diabetes.
>> It's not just diabetes though, is it?
>> No.
>> I was just looking at some of the
studies. Um, there's a study here in the
JAMAMA network. It says a Danish study
found that children born to mothers with
diabetes had a 15% high risk of
psychiatric disorders with schizophrenia
risk being 55% higher. intellectual
disability 29% higher and um a
connection to autism and ADHD. A 2025
review of 200 studies which is 56
million mother baby pairs found a 25%
high risk of autism when um mothers had
diabetes during pregnancy.
>> Yeah.
>> From the Lancet diabetes and
endocrinology report. And it's important
to note that these studies show
correlation not causation. And a 25%
increase in absolute terms only raises
the prevalence from one in 100 to around
1.25 in 100 children. So there's some
nuance to be had on that.
>> There is some nuance, but that
association holds very strongly. And as
you said, 56 million mom baby pairs. So
across the world, we see that when a mom
has diabetes during pregnancy, her baby
has a higher risk of psychiatric
disorders. And the main theory that
could explain this association has to do
with the baby's brain. So your baby
is forming his brain in the room. And
today, Stephen, you have about a 100red
billion neurons in your brain and they
are the exact same neurons that you had
the day you were born. Neurons never get
replaced. So what does this mean? It
means that your neurons that you have
for life are formed during pregnancy in
your mother's uterus. Now you have these
neurons in the baby's brain being formed
250,000 per minute. Pew, pew, pew, pew,
pew, neurons everywhere. And next to the
neurons, you have another type of cell.
This cell is called the micro ga. And it
kind of looks like a starfish, and it's
patrolling the baby's brain. And it's
job is to make sure that the neurons are
forming properly. So what microg ga do,
they're a cell from the immune system,
is they are on the lookout for any
neurons that are being damaged or not
formed properly. And as soon as they
find a neuron that is not ideal, they go
over to it and they eat it and they
destroy it. So they're pruning the brain
and they're looking out for damage and
making sure everything develops
normally. Now if the mother has high
inflammation levels during pregnancy and
this can be caused by a number of
things. It can be caused by high glucose
levels. It can be caused by infection.
It can be caused by chemicals. High
inflammation seems to be making these
microglea overactive. Now all of a
sudden they become a bit deregulated and
they start eating and destroying neurons
that don't need to be destroyed. They
start destroying healthy neurons and as
a result the brain is forming in a
slightly suboptimal fashion. And
scientists believe this to be the
leading theory behind why we see the
association between gestational
diabetes, so diabetes of pregnancy and a
higher risk of psychiatric disorders.
They believe it has to do with the
inflammation levels going on in the
baby's brain during pregnancy. And so
what does this tell us? This tells us
that when we're pregnant, we're
influencing the amount of inflammation
in our baby's body. And this should be
something that we tell women about
because if they can have power over
their inflammation levels, for example,
by reducing their glucose spikes, they
could also give their baby a benefit to
its brain formation. Do you think it's
useful for women during pregnancy to
wear those continuous glucose monitors?
>> I did. I did the whole time. Is it
useful? Depends on what you want to do.
I think it's really interesting. It
helped me a lot. Maybe just for two
weeks could be cool. So, you can kind of
see what's going on and learn about your
glucose spikes. And I think one of the
issues we see during pregnancy is that
your glucose levels are usually tested
in the third trimester with
[clears throat] the diabetes test. But
by that time, like you've already been
going going along for 6 months with your
glucose levels. I think we should be
testing glucose levels much much earlier
like in the first trimester because your
glucose levels in the first trimester
actually can predict very well whether
you're going to get gestational diabetes
or not. So, I think we should maybe put
a glucose monitor on all pregnant moms
in the first trimester or even pre-reg
to help them understand their glucose
spikes and show them about these easy
tools and habits and hacks that you can
put in place to reduce your glucose
spikes.
>> I was reading about a study from
Diabetes Care that said they put um
these continuous glucose monitors on 700
women and found that if they did it in
the first trimester, they could
accurately predict who would develop
gestational diabetes at 24 to 28 weeks.
>> Yeah. And so that's really interesting
because a lot of people used to think
that gestational diabetes, meaning
diabetes during pregnancy, is kind of
random. It was like, "Oh, you get it,
but we don't know why. It's random. Your
body's just doing this." And now we have
evidence that suggests that actually
it's correlated to your glucose levels
in the first trimester. Now, in the
first trimester, your glucose levels are
pretty much the same as when you're not
pregnant. As pregnancy progresses,
hormones come into play and things start
shifting. Glucose spikes get bigger and
longer. fasting glucose levels becomes
lower. But that first trimester, your
glucose spikes and your glucose levels
are similar to pre- pregnancy. This
means that essentially your non-pregant
glucose levels can predict whether or
not you're going to get gestational
diabetes. Which means that gestational
diabetes is not random. It actually has
roots in what was happening before
pregnancy. Meaning that if you had high
glucose levels before pregnancy, you're
more likely to get gestational diabetes.
Gestational diabetes could actually just
be a symptom of having high glucose
levels before pregnancy but just not
knowing about it.
>> You know, when we say high glucose
levels, is that a very individual thing?
>> No,
>> it's not an individual thing.
>> No, we have very clear cut offs. So, for
example, if you're not pregnant like you
and I, 100 milligrams per deciliter is
the cut off between healthy and
pre-diabetes.
So, that's fasting glucose level, your
glucose level first thing in the
morning. If you're pregnant, that
changes. Anything above 92 milligrams
per deciliter is considered diabetes of
pregnancy. So high glucose levels, it's
it's very well segmented. We have these
very specific ranges that say normal,
too high, much too high.
>> But if me and you both have this um a
teaspoon of this honey that I have here
on the desk, our responses to this honey
are going to be completely different,
right?
>> Yeah. The glucose spike we experience is
going to be different for a bunch of
reasons. Our microbiome, our genetics,
how much muscle mass we have, how
hydrated, how stressed, how tired we we
are. So maybe you're going to get a
spike of like, I don't know, 30 30
milligrams and maybe I'll get a 45
milligram spike because I'm tired. Now,
what does that mean? It doesn't mean
that honey is necessarily better for you
than it is for me. It just means that my
body today is more or less good at
managing this influx of glucose
>> today.
>> Today. Yeah. Today. And it also means
something very important, which is that
if you and I both used a glucose hack.
So, for example, if you and I both had a
chicken breast before the honey, both
you and I would have a smaller glucose
spike from that same honey. So, glucose
hacks and ways to reduce your glucose
spikes work in everyone. The exact
absolute values after eating something,
these can vary. But one thing that is
true for everybody is that you're
fasting glucose. So glucose before you
eat anything, that is something we can
compare. So if you and I both at 7 a.m.
before we eat anything and we had our
fasting glucose levels checked, we could
compare. We could say, "Oh, Jesse is
very close to pre-diabetes and Steven is
not very close to pre-diabetes." Those
are very easy numbers to compare. the
spikes after eating. These can vary.
>> So, if I put on a little bit more
muscle, that means that I'll tolerate
glucose better.
>> Yeah. Because your muscles are an
amazing sink where your body is soaking
up glucose from your bloodstream. And
that's why we see that even during
pregnancy, having high muscle mass is
protective against diabetes. So, women
with higher muscle mass in pregnancy are
less likely to have gestational
diabetes. Let me give you an example.
So, we we eat this honey. What happens?
The honey goes from our mouth to our
stomach to our intestine and then it
goes through our intestinal wall into
our bloodstream. So all these glucose
molecules are arriving into our
bloodstream. Now there's two options.
Either we stay here and we don't move.
In that case glucose is going to rise in
our bloodstream, big glucose spike and
then crash. Or we say, "Okay, let's go
outside and go for a walk right after we
eat this honey." We're walking. Our
muscles are contracting. Our leg muscles
are contracting. Our arm muscles are
contracting. And these muscles as
they're contracting, they're looking for
energy. And the first place they look is
in the bloodstream. They look for
glucose in the bloodstream. Which is why
if you move after you eat glucose, you
will get a smaller glucose spike because
some of that glucose is being used by
your muscles for energy.
>> I've heard you tell people that they
should uh do some stuff with their
calves. [laughter]
>> Calf raises. Yeah. Okay. So, put your
feet on the ground, Stephen. Yeah.
>> And just do some calf push-ups. Calf
raises. So you go up onto the ends of
your feet and back down.
>> Okay. So you got it. I'm going up. I'm
lifting my heels.
>> Exactly. Lift your heels up and down. So
as you do this, there's a muscle in your
calf called the soles muscle. Can you
feel it contract? It's your calf muscle.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So this muscle is very good at
soaking up glucose from your
bloodstream. So easy hack you can do
after you eat something sweet is you
just do some calf raises at your desk
like this. Nobody can notice. Five
minutes and that's going to help reduce
the glucose spike of what you just ate.
I mean five five minutes.
>> Yeah, I mean you can do five minutes. In
the studies they do sometimes hours of
this but even just one minute is better
than nothing to reduce your glucose
spike.
[clears throat]
>> I mean this is probably why a lot of
cultures go for a walk after dinner.
Right.
>> Completely. And a lot of the glucose
hacks that I've talked about, they
actually mirror a lot of traditions. So
for example, the glucose hack of having
your vegetables at the beginning of your
meal. This is incredibly powerful
pregnancy or not pregnancy because
vegetables contain fiber. And when you
have them at the beginning of your meal,
they create this protective mesh in your
intestine that slows down the glucose
molecules from carbs and makes the
glucose molecules arrive more slowly
into your bloodstream, meaning smaller
spike. Now, eating veggies at the
beginning of a meal, that's something
that we call kite in France, which means
raw veggies at the beginning of your
meal.
What other simple exercises do you
recommend if I've just eaten something
that's high in glucose that I can do
quickly to help bring down my glucose
spike? Right. That's ultimately what
it's going to do, bring down the spike.
>> The best thing to do is to move your
body. So, get up, find a spot in your
apartment that needs to be tidied, find
a place you got to vacuum, find some
find some laundry to do, and do that
within 90 minutes after eating. Your
muscles are your best ally in reducing
your glucose spikes after you've eaten.
So, what's going on there? I I start
eating a cake. I finish eating the cake.
How long have I got to get that cake
into my muscles? [laughter]
>> That's a great way to put it. You have
about 90 minutes. So, an hour and a
half.
>> Okay.
>> That's when the spike is usually going
to be at at its maximum.
>> So, if I start squatting,
>> Yeah. squats are a great great tool.
>> I want to go for a big muscle, right?
>> Yeah. Absolutely. So there's some
studies showing that if you do I think
it's five squats or 10 squats every five
minutes that is a very very powerful way
to get your glucose spike down. Now you
don't always have the space to do some
squats but if you're alone and at home
go for it that's one of the best ones.
>> So what's going on in my body there is
my I start squatting I'm working my
glutes.
>> Yeah. So your glutes are looking for
energy and the first place they look is
in your blood. They're looking for
glucose
>> because glucose is the energy that your
muscles are using.
>> Okay. Yeah. Do you use standing desks?
I've really got into it.
>> Yeah, I do. I have a desk at home that
moves up and down.
>> Same.
>> Yeah, but sometimes if I'm tired, I just
more tired with the standing desk. So, I
have to have a bit of energy left over.
Do you always use a standing desk?
>> I mean, I kind of oscillate between
standing and sitting. But I think
especially in like the morning, I find
it to be really, really good.
>> You just gave me an idea for a glucose
test. I should do the same muffin and
afterwards standing desk for 30 minutes
or sitting at the desk for 30 minutes.
That's a great test.
>> Well, we need to put some uh Stella
glucose monitors on before. But yes, we
can do it. We should do it. So, I will
eat a muffin first thing in the morning,
then stand for 30 minutes, and then the
next day, I will eat a muffin first
thing in the morning, and then sit for
30 minutes, and I'll send you the spike,
and we can see we can see how much
glucose is being burned when we're
standing at our desk.
>> Okay. Well, we're gonna put that the
results in the episode. Okay, great.
Now, so what you see on the screen if
you're watching is the results of Jesse
standing after having a muffin
and then these results which you see on
the screen are Jesse sitting after
having a muffin
>> and either we'll see that the spikes are
very similar
>> which [clears throat] means that
standing doesn't use much more muscle
energy than sitting or we will see that
standing is using up some of the glucose
from my bloodstream and therefore the
spike is smaller after the muffin.
>> On that point of exercise, mothers are
given conflicting advice about what to
do when they're pregnant. Um, some
people say exercise is not good. Some
people say it's great. What's your
position from all the research you've
done as to whether mothers should be
doing exercise during pregnancy?
>> Exercise is incredibly good for your
baby's development. And there's one
study done in animals because we can't
do many studies in in humans when it
comes to pregnancy for obvious ethical
reasons, but there's this incredible
study which I think is my favorite study
in the book. So scientists took two
groups of pregnant rats and they gave
them the exact same housing conditions,
diet, lighting, everything. The only
difference is that one group also had
these tiny little treadmills that they
had to walk on for 30 minutes a day
every day during pregnancy. So, same
exact conditions. The only difference is
one group of pregnant rats is moving 30
minutes a day on these tiny treadmills.
Then they wait for the babies to be born
and they put the babies in these mazes
to kind of measure how quickly they're
solving the maze. And they also measure
the baby's anxiety levels. They found
that the babies that were born to the
moms who were exercising solved the maze
twice as fast and had fewer anxiety
symptoms.
So they found this strong association
between a mom exercising during
pregnancy and the outcomes of the baby's
brain.
>> H [clears throat]
>> and the main theory is that when we
exercise, there's this molecule produced
in our brain called BDNF. And it's got a
complicated name, but what it does is
that it helps neuroplasticity. It helps
your neurons create new connections. And
we know that in humans when we exercise,
that's one of the reasons exercise is
good for the brain because it increases
BDNF. And in these pregnant rats, they
found not only were the mom's BDNFs
higher, but the baby's BDNF levels
inside of the wombs was also higher. and
they believe that is why they saw this
impact on the baby's brain development
after birth. So what happens in the womb
is really setting up a strong foundation
for your baby's brain. It's laying out
the basic architecture, which is why
it's so important to do these simple
hacks to give your baby's brain the
optimal nutrients that it needs to form
properly.
>> What is um there's a little metaphor
over there, those two plant pots. What
is the metaphor?
Okay, so
both of these plants come from identical
seeds. The only difference is what they
were planted in. So, one of these plants
was planted in basically little rocks
and gravel with a tiny bit of soil in
it. The other seed was planted in rich
fertilized soil. What is this showing
us? We intuitively understand that when
we're planting a seed, the soil we
choose is important, right? We
understand that the same seed is not
going to lead to the same tree depending
on where we plant it. And I think for
pregnancy, we've lost this intuition
because your baby is a seed. You as the
mother's body, you are the soil and the
soil is going to co-create your baby's
plan. So when you're pregnant, you have
this little baby with his DNA plant, but
depending on depending on the nutrients
you provide, he's going to grow into a
different tree. He's either going to
grow in a super optimal tree that has
all the nutrients he needed or he's
going to have to adapt to what's
available and grow into a slightly
different tree. Now, the main difference
is that humans are not plants. So humans
are very resilient. your baby will
probably be okay. Even if like 90% of us
you don't have enough choline. Even if
like 75% of us you don't have enough
omega-3s, even if like 70% of us you
don't have enough protein. And even if
like most of us you're eating more than
the recommended amount of sugar, your
baby will probably be fine, but he will
be adapting to a slightly suboptimal
nutrient environment. So that's what
this metaphor is all about. You're
co-creating the plan of your baby with
your diet during pregnancy and it's
shaping him and he's adapting and
calibrating to what you're giving him.
>> Steve, what you doing?
>> Uh, just making myself a delicious
coffee
>> from the freezer.
>> From the freezer. Have you not heard
about Contier?
>> No.
>> Oh my gosh. This is going to change your
life. A couple of months ago, the
founder of this business called Matt
sent a big shipment of this coffee to
our office in London. This coffee is
like nothing you've ever seen before.
What most people don't know is that the
processing of coffee takes out a lot of
the taste. So what they do is they flash
freeze it at the optimal moment when
it's most tasty and they send you in the
post the coffee in these little frozen
ice cubes. Now Max sent a big shipment
to my office. I moved it to the kitchen.
I said to the team, "Knock yourselves
out. Give this a try." And then I saw so
many messages in our Slack channel of
people going, "Oh my god, what the hell
is that? It's so delicious." All I have
to do is pop it out in the morning using
the little button on the back of this
thing. I pour my hot water in and I mix
it and that is done. You can get $30 off
your first order of Cometier coffee if
you go to cometier.com/stephven.
And it won't be available for long. So
get that discount while you can. I I'm
not going to be a pregnant mother in my
life, but I am going to have a fiance
hopefully at some point who is a
pregnant mother. So, I would really like
to know how I can help as a partner, but
also I'm sure she's going to listen to
this. So, what she can do to make sure
that the soil in which my baby grows is
optimal. We've talked about a few of the
things so far like choline and we've al
also talked about sugar and glucose
levels throughout pregnancy to avoid
gestational diabetes. We've talked about
exercise as well. What about alcohol?
>> Not a good idea because as I explained,
your bloodstream and your baby's
bloodstream are basically connected. So
when you drink alcohol during pregnancy,
your blood alcohol level rises and then
your baby's blood alcohol level in your
uterus also rises. There's no filter
protecting your baby from alcohol. So
when you have a glass of wine, your
baby's also having a glass of wine in
the womb. And we know that alcohol is
not good for our brains. And this also
goes for babies. So, you wouldn't put
red wine in your baby's bottle after
birth and give him red wine to drink,
but that's kind of what's going on when
you're drinking alcohol when you're
pregnant. And there's been a lot of a
lot of stuff online about, oh, alcohol
during pregnancy is fine in small
quantities. I think when you understand
how alcohol is toxic to the brain
biologically, it makes no sense to
pregnant moms that a little bit of
alcohol is okay. It's best if you can to
avoid alcohol entirely.
>> So, complete abstinence. Yeah,
>> there was actually a study that came out
in February last year, which is quite
recent, from the University of
Melbourne, where they used
highresolution 3D imaging to reveal that
even low doses of alcohol cause facial
morphing, consistent changes in the
shape of the eyes and nose at 12 months,
persisting up to age 8, and weaker
connections in the in the right um
anterior singulate part of the brain,
the region critical for emotional
regulation and impulse control, even if
the mother drank only occasionally.
which is
very um surprising
because I think for a long time we've
always thought that heavy consumption of
alcohol was a problem
>> and we know that yeah
>> but even low doses are suboptimal.
>> It's kind of it kind of goes for all
adults, right? We thought for a long
time that one glass of wine per day was
good for the heart. Now we understand
that the ideal amount of alcohol is
zero. Like there's no benefit to
alcohol. Now, is that to say that one
glass of wine during pregnancy is gonna,
you know, indelibly impact your baby's
brain? Probably not. But if you can
avoid it, this is the best time to avoid
it entirely.
>> What about when you're breastfeeding?
>> Oo. Well, you have much more leeway then
because the amount of alcohol in your
breast milk mirrors the amount of
alcohol in your bloodstream. So, for
example, if you have a glass of wine, 2
and 1 half to three hours later, you
have pretty much no more alcohol in your
bloodstream, which means your breast
milk is also pretty much devoid of
alcohol. So, if you time it right,
you're going to be able to have a glass
of wine without it actually going into
your breast milk. But, it's all about
timing.
>> Caffeine,
>> the recommendation is to stay under two
cups of coffee per day during pregnancy.
Um, it's not a neurotoxin like alcohol,
right? But caffeine does go to your
baby's bloodstream. And some studies
show that babies are more active in the
womb after the mother drinks caffeine.
And it has no benefit. So listen, you do
what you can. I reduced a little bit my
caffeine intake. Instead of having like
two flat whites, I had maybe half a flat
white or a decaf fat white when I could.
But some days I just really wanted a
coffee, so I had a coffee.
>> Have they ever done any studies on
caffeine and pregnancy?
>> Well, we can't do any studies on
caffeine and pregnancy in humans. It's
unethical to test anything in pregnant
moms. We have associations and the
associations don't show much difference.
Like we don't have studies that show
caffeine intake in moms leads to this
kind of bad outcome in the kids. It
seems pretty neutral at low doses. If
you have really high doses of caffeine,
there is an impact on the baby's well
associative impact on the baby's
temperament, but for one or two cups a
day, there's no impact that we find.
>> And they've done animal studies.
>> Yeah, they've done animal studies. Low
doses also fine. Very high doses, we
start to see changes in the baby's
behavior. You talk about this in the
book in certain animal studies they show
um during pregnancy leads to smaller
offspring altered heart development and
delayed brain growth. Um but you explain
that we don't have direct clinical trial
data on the long-term impact of caffeine
during human pregnancy.
>> And also those studies are very high
doses of caffeine.
>> Okay. Yeah.
>> And the World Health Organization
recommends that women who consume more
than 300 milligs of coffee a day, which
is roughly three cups, reduce their
daily intake during pregnancy.
>> Yeah. So probably one cup a day is not
harming your baby. Hm. Fermented foods
in the gut. What about that? Yeah. What
should I be thinking about there?
>> Well, this is very early research, but
showing that potentially if a mother has
fermented food during pregnancy, it's
also seeding her baby's gut microbiome.
But this is very, very early stuff. But
if you can include some kefir, some
sauerkraut during pregnancy, it's
helpful.
>> What What about bread? Do you think much
about bread?
>> Do I think much about bread? I mean, I'm
French, so I think about bread all the
[laughter] time.
in terms of um your recommendations on
the type of bread one should be eating.
>> Well, bread is interesting because bread
is a carb that contains mostly glucose
and we know that in the third trimester
of pregnancy, your baby actually needs
more glucose because he's developing and
he also needs energy. Your baby needs
about 70 gram of glucose per day at the
very end of pregnancy. So, as a pregnant
mom, you should be eating 70 grams of
glucose more than you usually do at the
end of pregnancy. For the first and
second trimesters, you don't need to be
eating much more glucose. So you could
have that via bread. You could have that
via rice, for example. So 70 grams of
glucose is about three slices of bread
or a cup and a half of rice. In terms of
the type of bread you should be eating,
it's always better for your glucose
levels to have bread that is full of
seeds. But to be honest, there's not a
huge difference between like sprouted
grain bread versus white bread. It's all
just glucose. Because there there is a I
guess there's a a risk that mothers
might get a little bit scared of having
sugary foods during pregnancy and then
you've just said the baby does need
glucose.
>> Yeah. So there's a difference. So
glucose is present in carbs and starches
meaning bread, pasta, rice, potatoes,
oats. So starches contain glucose but
starches are different to sugars. So on
this plate we only have sugars. These
are the sweet foods that contain
glucose, but also another molecule that
makes them sweet called fructose. Your
baby needs no fructose during pregnancy
ever. So, your baby does not need any
sugar from dessert, from chocolate, from
muffins, from cupcakes. Your baby needs
none of this. But your baby does need
glucose, which is healthier to get from
starches like bread, pasta, rice,
potatoes.
>> What about the ketogenic diet while
you're pregnant?
I don't think there's enough evidence to
tell us whether it's okay or not. It's
very early. It's quite rare. Um, and it
seems that since your baby does need
glucose during pregnancy, it's just
easier to eat glucose and to eat
starches when you're pregnant.
>> And whole fruit is also a good way of
getting the glucose that you need
because thanks to the fiber in the
water, the amount of fructose in the
fruit is not leading to such a big
fructose spike. There's a study on the
G1D Foundation that basically says for
99% of pregnancies, a strict ketogenic
diet is considered dangerous. Doctors in
instead recommend a low glycemic index
diet.
>> And low glycemic diets mean a diet with
smaller glucose spikes. And this is
really helpful for people with
gestational diabetes. It helps them
manage their spikes and reduce the need
for medication. But also for any
pregnant mom, it's important to think
about your glucose spikes because when
you have a glucose spike, your baby has
a glucose spike. And glucose spikes are
not good news. It's better to give your
baby slow rolling hills of glucose and
not these big spikes that can lead to
more inflammation. And as we talked
about, more inflammation can impact the
baby's brain development.
>> Do you recommend that mothers take
certain supplements? Did you take
supplements throughout your pregnancy?
>> Yeah, I took omega-3s. And the reason is
I took omega-3 supplements is because
omega-3s also form the baby's brain. And
they come from algae in the ocean and
fish.
Now, omega-3s and in particular one
omega-3 called DHA, it helps your baby's
neurons connect with each other. And
this is really important. And in animal
studies, when scientists restrict how
much DHA a mother has access to, they
see measurable impact on the baby's
brain. They see brains that are less
efficient. They see babies who find the
exit of mazes with much more time.
There's an impact on the brain
development. Now, the easiest way to get
enough DHA is to eat fish or to eat
sardines that we have here. So, the
recommendation is fatty fish twice a
week. I would say fatty fish three times
a week if you can. And this is also it's
amazing because it's very cheap. So,
these three cans of sardines are your
three servings of fish per week. This
gets gives you all the omega-3s your
baby needs. And this cost about in total
like $67. So, for $67 per week and for
another $7 of eggs per week, you're
getting all the choline and all the
omega-3s your baby needs. Yeah. You're
opening it. Are you going to eat it?
>> Okay. You know, you want to know how I
have them?
>> How?
>> Okay. Are you going to eat it?
>> Yeah.
>> Go for it. So, I open the can. I put it
in a bowl. [clears throat] I put mustard
in it. I put sea salt, a little bit of
feta,
>> some herbs, and I make this sort of nice
little paste. And then I toast a piece
of bread and I put it on top of the
bread. And I have like a nice little
sardine mash on my bread.
>> It is quite nice.
>> Yeah. And it's really good for you. Lots
of omega-3s. And so for omega-3s, I also
supplemented with additional omega-3s
because I think the recommendation of
fatty fish two, three times a day is
lacking. Most moms don't have enough
omega-3s in their body to give their
baby everything that he needs. So, I did
this three times a week plus 2 grams of
DHA supplement per day.
>> What else was in your supplement stack?
>> Then, uh in the third trimester, I took
iron because my iron levels were very
low. This often happens during pregnancy
even though I was eating a lot of meat
because your baby is pulling a lot of
iron from you. And then I had a sort of
normal prenatal supplement, but I made
sure it had choline in it. And I made
sure it had a type of folic acid called
metilated folate, which is better
absorbed. And folate is very important
to prevent miscarriage.
>> You talked about your first pregnancy
and you said we'll talk about that
later.
>> Mhm.
>> You went through miscarriage.
>> Yes. Correct. So, I got pregnant the
first time and I thought everything
would be totally fine, but I found out
at the 3mon scan that the embryo had
stopped developing.
I had what's called a silent
miscarriage. So, usually when you
misaryry,
you start to lose blood, you have
cramps, you know something's wrong. I
had a silent miscarriage, which is more
rare, meaning the embryo stopped
developing. The embryo was dead. My body
did not expulse it. So, I found out that
I had lost a pregnancy at the scan at
the doctor's office and I found out that
I had been walking around for a month
with an embryo that had stopped
developing and I had no idea. I thought
I was still pregnant.
>> What What is What is that like for
someone like me that has never
experienced um such news? What are the
range of emotions and thoughts um that
occur when you get news like that?
Listen,
[snorts]
for me it was so devastating. It was so
so difficult. I didn't I didn't want to
believe it. I was screaming. I remember
like falling to the floor in my living
room and saying to whatever God or the
universe like that I wanted my baby
back. I was I was not okay. It was very
very difficult. Um I felt a lot of
anger. I felt a lot of despair. I felt a
sense of injustice. Like why me? I felt
like I had done everything right. Like I
was eating the choline. I was taking the
right supplements. You know, I was not
like smoking crack and I still had a
miscarriage. And I I didn't know this
happened. I I didn't have it in my
consciousness that it could happen to
me. So I fell from very very high. It
was it was probably one of the most
difficult experiences in my life.
>> Is this more common?
>> One in five pregnancies and in
miscarriage.
>> That's really high. Like way higher than
I thought it was. Yeah.
>> And is it usually in the
>> in the first trimester?
>> In the first trimester,
>> but it can happen later also.
>> Yeah. And I felt so isolated and I
didn't feel like people around me knew
how to how to handle it cuz it's kind of
taboo. And then when I miscarried, I
started talking to people about it. And
I found out that so many people around
me had gone through it but had never
told me about it.
>> When was your first pregnancy?
So, I got pregnant in February 2024.
So, the miscarriage was in spring 2024.
And then I got pregnant again
in August 2025.
No, 2024. And my son was born in May
2025.
So, I got pregnant quite quickly
afterwards. Um, but it was difficult
because I was still carrying the grief
of the miscarriage. So, I had a very
anxious pregnancy. I was very anxious
the whole time that something bad would
happen again, that I would miscarry
again and not know about it. It was very
difficult.
>> H
>> It's a trial of the heart, man.
>> It's Yeah, the number is way higher than
I expected. Just just much higher than I
expected. And it's it's scary scary to
think about.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> And that's why people usually wait until
the third month mark to tell their
friends and family that they're
pregnant. And for some reason, I had no
conception of that. So the moment I got
that first pregnancy test, I told
everybody.
>> Mhm.
>> So it made it quite complicated to have
to announce the miscarriage to like 50
people.
>> Um but at the same time, I felt less
alone than I would have felt if nobody
knew I was pregnant in the first place.
Mhm. [clears throat]
>> But
>> yeah, it was very very challenging and
it's more common than we think and it
happens to more people than we know
about.
>> Is there anything you wish you knew
earlier in life about I mean we've
talked about many of the things
specifically around diet and you know
and pregnancy but is there anything else
you wish someone had said to you as a
woman earlier um that you didn't hear?
>> Yeah. I think I wish I wish my mom had
told me about her miscarriages. She had
not.
>> Oh, really?
>> And so I'm miscarried. Yep. I wish my
grandmother had told me. I had I did not
know. I wish people had told me more
about their experiences because that way
I would have understood that it happens
to a lot of people and maybe I would
have been more prepared and maybe it
would have made the experience a little
bit less painful
>> instead of feeling so so isolated or at
least I would have maybe been a bit more
cautious
>> because you said one of the feelings and
emotions you had was why did this happen
to me?
>> Yes. I was like why me? Why me? And then
I realized it happens to many people and
it's not necessarily a reason. It's
nothing you've done. It can be just a
chromosomal abnormality and the embryo
just can't develop anymore. It can be
something we don't understand yet.
>> It's hard, isn't it? Getting pregnant.
>> Yeah,
>> it's hard. I think I don't know what
lawyer I was living under, but I just
assumed that getting pregnant was have
sex unprotected. I know because your
whole life you're told do all these
things to not get pregnant because it
might happen without you expecting it.
And then when you try to get pregnant,
you realize, oh, it's not at all as easy
as I thought it was.
>> It's it's it's a lot. And I was lucky. I
got pregnant after, you know, two three
cycles both times. So that's very very
quick. But some of my friends, it's
taken them years to conceive.
>> How has becoming a mother changed you?
>> Um, it's made me happier. I feel like my
baseline happiness is higher. I don't
have I used to have this like 10% kind
of melancholy or or spleen or sort of
like, oh, maybe my life could be better
if I did X or Y or like questioning, you
know, do I need more? How do I how do I
find happiness? And that's gone. Like
with my son, that has that has been
filled. And I didn't expect it to be
filled. So that's been amazing. And it's
made me very efficient cuz now when I
have 42 minutes, I use those 42 minutes.
Like I cannot imagine how much time I
used to have. Like what did I used to do
and I thought I was busy. Now I'm really
busy. [laughter]
It's so funny to look back at my life
before and what I used to think and
realize that I was completely wrong. I
was so wrong. I thought I was busy and I
thought I was tired. [laughter]
I wasn't. Now I am.
>> [clears throat and laughter]
>> You feel very busy, right?
>> I feel so busy.
>> And you feel tired.
>> I do. I do sometimes ask myself, you
know, because again, I'm in that season
of life. I do like, where am I going to
get the where's the time going to come
from? Cuz like
>> you just prioritize. So many things you
just delegate where you don't do anymore
>> and you find the time because your baby
is the most important thing.
>> And I I think I've become better at my
work because I'm more efficient. And I
thought I was pretty efficient before,
but now I'm like super human. On that
point of parenting and pregnancy and
everything we've been talking about, you
said that you spoke to your mother about
the diet she had and her lifestyle when
she was growing you inside her. Uh, if
your parents did have a suboptimal
lifestyle in diet,
this is a bit of a strange question to
ask, but is there something that I can
do now as an adult to reverse that?
>> Totally. Well, first of all, my mom was
eating a lot of sugar, but it wasn't her
fault. Like, culture around her was
telling her fat is bad. Eat low-fat
foods. Like, she was just a product of
her time like we all are. So, our diet
today is just a function of what food
marketing is going on. So, again, it's
not our fault. We're just kind of
swimming in this sea of the food
industry and marketing and we do the
best we can.
Pregnancy is important. It has an
outsized effect on our vulnerability to
disease, but it's not everything. So, I
told you at 25 I was on the cusp of
pre-diabetes. Well, I implemented the
glucose hacks. I found all the science
and I never got pre-diabetes. So, you're
probably going to be fine. It's more of
the difference between like, so I have
two friends. I have Gabriel and Nicholas
and they both work out the same and eat
the same. One of them builds muscle
really easily and has a lot of muscle
mass. The other one doesn't. They're not
equal. However, it doesn't mean that
they both can't build muscle. It might
just be a little bit more difficult for
one than for the other. Same thing with
diabetes. One person may get diabetes
with the same diet as another person who
doesn't get it. Well, when you apply
things, when you change your diet, you
can change the course of your life. You
can change what diseases you you face,
but you might be more or less
vulnerable. So, we always have agency.
We always have power, no matter our age,
no matter where we are in life, to take
back control.
>> Cravings.
>> Mhm.
>> Cravings are where it all begins. You
[laughter] know, you can know
everything.
>> Wait, say more about that. What do you
mean?
>> Yeah, like you can know, you can have
all the information. I'm sure that
there's people that listen to this
podcast, including me, who know a lot
about this stuff, but it doesn't
necessarily mean that you have the
control to take action. Because when
your brain starts saying, "Go on, eat
that thing. Go on. It'll be so tasty."
And you know what? You can do your calf
raises after it. It all be fine. Like
that voice in your head that talks you
into things that you don't really want
to do, and then 10 minutes later, you
feel really guilty that you did it. M
>> I'm just wondering if you think much
about the psychology of being in the
things I can do upstream to either fend
off the cravings or to have better
agency and control over the cravings.
>> So let's talk about that voice because
that voice comes in two flavors.
For some the voice is m that cookie
looks really really good. Chocolate chip
with sea salt that looks tasty. I'm
going to probably buy it after the end
of this meeting. That is the voice of
pleasure and enjoyment. There's another
voice that might be in your brain which
is like, "Oh my god, I need sugar right
now. What's in the kitchen? I'm going to
open the cupboards. Whatever there is.
Oh, this weird old cookie. I need to
have it right now. I need sugar
otherwise I'm not going to feel good."
Those are two very different voices.
That second voice is a voice of control
and of almost being like a victim to
sugar addiction. I want to help people
go from the sugar addiction voice to the
enjoyment voice because I think it's
fine to have cravings of or to want to
eat something delicious. I just want to
make sure people are not controlled by
that voice. Do you see what I mean? I
want it to be something you enjoy, not
something you are victim to. So, how do
we separate these two things out?
>> We need to balance our glucose levels so
that that voice comes from a place of
happiness and not a place of a glucose
crash that is making you feel controlled
by a biological impulse that is stronger
than you. So, protein in the morning, a
savory breakfast, super super important.
Then, a veggie starter before your lunch
and your dinner when you can. avoiding
sugar on an empty stomach to not kick
off a roller coaster of blood sugar ups
and downs that's going to make you crave
more and more of this of this sweet
stuff. But the voice that you just
mentioned, which is like, "Oh, that
looks really good. I'm going to do some
calf raises afterwards." I think that's
fine. To me, that doesn't sound like
you're being controlled by it. It sounds
like you kind of want to eat delicious
stuff,
>> but I regret it 10 minutes after and I
go, "Why?" Because I think,
>> you know, especially if it's at like
10:00 p.m.
>> Yeah. Because then it messes up your
sleep. It messes up my next day.
>> Yeah.
>> I know. Why the hell did I do that? I
knew I shouldn't eat it. Yeah,
>> but the craving was too strong.
>> And listen, sometimes that's the
situation we're in. I do that, too.
Sometimes, like sometimes it is 11:00
p.m. I'm exhausted. I know my son's
probably going to wake up at 4:00 a.m.,
but I want that cookie. And I just I
just have it. Maybe I have some vinegar,
some antike before, but it's okay to
give into these things. I don't think we
have to feel guilty about them. Like,
that's just life. Sometimes we can't do
the glucose hacks, and sometimes we're
tired and the cookie looks good, so eat
the cookie. But it annoys me because I
then feel the next day and I go,
well, you know,
>> was it worth it? Absolutely not.
Objectively, absolutely not.
>> Yeah. So, maybe if you had had that
cookie after some almonds or if after
the cookie you could do some laundry or
move around a little bit to reduce the
spike, maybe you could help with your
deep sleep during that night,
>> but sometimes you can't.
>> I think as well the subject of sleep and
glucose is one we we don't talk about
enough because some people really
struggle with their sleep. Yeah.
>> I'm flying and waking up early at 4 a.m.
fly to LA, fly Miami, go to guitar,
wherever,
>> my ability to control
>> cravings is significantly reduced. And
weirdly, I noticed that when I wake up
at, say I I had, I don't know, I had
dinner at 9:00 p.m. the night before, if
I'm woken up at like 3 or 4 a.m., I wake
up really hungry.
>> Interesting. Have you worn a glucose
monitor to see if you're not crashing in
the middle of the night?
>> No. But I've always been so curious as
to why that is because I know that if id
slept for 4 hours more, I would have
been like today where the first thing
I've eaten today and it's what 2 p.m. is
that sardine
>> because I just wasn't hungry this
morning,
>> but if I'd woken up early, I mean, I've
looked a little bit into it.
>> I have a question. Do you think it's the
time you wake up that is causing you to
be more or less hungry? Or it's the
dinner you had the night before that is
causing a crash that is causing you to
wake up?
>> Like what's the chicken, what's the egg?
Because it sounds to me like maybe at
3:00 a.m. if you're having a glucose
crash because you had a big carb heavy
dinner, then it's your body waking you
up and making you feel very hungry. For
me, it's kind of similar. Like in the
morning if I feel extremely hungry, it's
usually because I went to bed and I had
just had a bunch of carbs before bed.
Well, thanks to the ability to do very
quick research, I now know the answer,
or at least a solid hypothesis, and the
leading answer [clears throat] as to why
when you're sleep deprived, you end up
eating worse is because of the hormone
imbalance of leptin and grein.
>> Sleep deprivation directly alters the
hunger hormones produced in your gut and
fat cells. If grein increases, known as
hunger hormone, ghrein signals the brain
that it's time to eat. Studies from
Stanford University showing for only 5
hours increases ghrein by approximately
15%. Leptin decreases. Um the satiety
hormone tells your brain you are full.
The same sleep loss decreases leptin by
approximately 15%. And therefore the
result is that your brain receives a
loud I am starving signal and a very
weak I'm full signal simultaneously.
>> And leptin is the hormone we talked
about at the beginning which when you're
breastfed as a baby, you're
epigenetically making more leptin. And
this setting can stay with you for life.
So, it's possible that also there's some
stuff going on in early life that makes
you more or less hungry.
>> Have to speak to my mom. [laughter]
>> You know, every once in a while you come
across a product that has such a huge
impact on your life that you'd probably
describe as a gamecher. And I would say
for about 35 to 40% of my team, they
would currently describe this product
that I have in front of me called Ketone
IQ, which you can get at ketone.com
as a game changer. But the reason I
became a co-owner of this company and
the reason why they they now are a
sponsor of this podcast is because one
day when I came to work, there was a box
of this stuff sat on my desk. I had no
idea what it was. Lily and my team says
that this company have been in touch. So
I went upstairs, tried it, and quite
frankly, the rest is history. in terms
of my focus, my energy levels, how I
feel, how I work, how productive I am.
Game changer. So, if you want to give it
a try, visit ketone.com/stephven
for 30% off. You'll also get a free gift
with your second shipment. And now you
can find Keton IQ at Target stores
across the United States where your
first shot is completely free of charge.
For the first 10 years that I was a
founder, I didn't prioritize getting a
good night's sleep at all. But over
time, I started to realize that it was
the key metric that influenced
everything in my life, my mood, my
focus, my ability to show up and to
think clearly and to lead well. So now
with my lifestyle being pretty crazy,
traveling across time zones, working
late, training late, I still fight to
protect my sleep, which sometimes means
starting the day a little bit later. It
was my Whoop that helped me to make this
connection. They are one of my sponsors
for the show, and for the last four
years, every day, my Whoop has given me
insights into my sleep, my recovery, the
strain I'm taking on, and more broadly,
how my daily behaviors influence my
overall holistic health. It's the
difference between guessing and knowing
why I might be feeling the way that I
feel. Sometimes it will nudge me.
Sometimes it'll get me to slow down.
Sometimes it pushes me to go even
harder. But all the time it provides me
with data that gives me a deeper
understanding of myself. And without it,
it'd be hard to optimize how I live and
perform it. Right now you can get one
month free through my link at
join.woop.com/ceo.
1 month free. join.woop.com/ce.
Make sure you keep what I'm about to say
to yourself. I'm inviting 10,000 of you
to come even deeper into the diary of a
CEO. Welcome to my inner circle. This is
a brand new private community that I'm
launching to the world. We have so many
incredible things that happen that you
are never shown. We have the briefs that
are on my iPad when I'm recording the
conversation. We have clips we've never
released. We have behindthe-scenes
conversations with the guest and also
the episodes that we've never ever
released. and so much more. In the
circle, you'll have direct access to me.
You can tell us what you want this show
to be, who you want us to interview, and
the types of conversations you would
love us to have. But remember, for now,
we're only inviting the first 10,000
people that join before it closes. So,
if you want to join our private closed
community, head to the link in the
description below or go to
daccircle.com.
I will speak to you then.
What is the the most important thing we
haven't talked about as it relates to
nine months that count forever your new
book that we should have talked about?
>> I think protein.
>> Protein.
>> Yeah. By the time your baby's born, he
is about 50% protein if you exclude
water. So protein is not just for your
muscles. Protein forms your immune
system, your skin, your organs, many
many tissues, many many signaling
molecules in your body. So when you're
pregnant, you need to eat more protein
to give more protein to your baby. And
animal studies show something
fascinating, Stephen. They show that
when a mom is slightly protein
restricted, meaning she's eating a bit
less protein than she needs to, there's
a little epigenetic switch happening in
the baby that says, "Dear baby, keep
your muscles small because there's not a
lot of protein in the world you're about
to be born into." So what we're eating
during pregnancy is in essence sending a
little postcard to our baby in our
uterus telling him what kind of
nutrients will be available in the world
that he's about to be born into. And so
these animal studies suggest that if you
have a low protein diet, your baby will
be programmed to stay smaller and have
smaller muscle mass throughout his life.
>> And the thing is, Stephen, you need a
lot of protein when you're pregnant
because your baby is very protein
hungry. So here I have four chicken
breasts, which is basically the amount
of protein that I needed to eat every
single day.
>> Day
>> in the third trimester of pregnancy.
>> Yeah. Day.
>> Yeah. Per day.
>> Per day. It's a lot.
>> So I would have four eggs in the
morning. That's about 30 grams of
protein. And then I would have to have
three good servings of protein
represented by the three chicken breasts
here. So I would have fish at lunch,
probably a meat or a chicken at dinner,
and then a high protein snack. For
example, Greek yogurt. I would add some
whey protein powder in there to make
sure I was having enough protein. So,
you need about 1.6 gram of protein per
kilo of body weight per day in the third
trimester of pregnancy. And this is
where most of us fall short because
nobody's telling moms they need to eat
more protein. So, the result is that
moms lose their muscle mass because the
muscles are being broken down to give
protein to the baby. But there's a limit
to it. like you can't your muscle mass
cannot compensate for a low protein
diet. And this is why we see across all
women, all studies, low protein diets
lead to smaller babies and potentially
this epigenetic programming of staying
smaller throughout life. So protein is
key.
>> On that subject of muscle loss, have you
thought much about the impact of GLP1s,
these sort of fat loss drugs during
pregnancy?
>> Oh wow. I don't think they're
recommended during pregnancy. I hope not
because they prevent you from feeling
your hunger hormones. They prevent you
from feeling hungry. So, pregnancy would
be a very dangerous time to take these
because during pregnancy, you need to
eat a little bit more in terms of
quantity and calories, but also you need
to eat differently. So, you need to
learn about the protein, the choline,
the omega-3s, and I think it would be
quite dangerous to take a GLP1 during
pregnancy.
Do you do you know that the vinegar
thing you talked about to me before
where you said you have vinegar before
eating something that's high in glucose?
>> Yeah.
>> Do you recommend that for mothers as
well?
>> You can, but if you're going to do that,
you need to make sure the vinegar is
pasteurized because you want to make
sure that during pregnancy people are
like only eat pasteurized foods cuz you
want to prevent any food contamination.
So make sure you look on the back of the
vinegar bottle and make sure it's
pasteurized. Apple cider vinegar is
usually not pasteurized. So, do I
recommend it?
I think it's okay to do. Like vinegar is
fine during pregnancy, especially if you
really want like a cookie or a muffin.
It could be helpful to reduce the
glucose spike. But truly, pregnancy is
kind of the moment where you need to be
eating as little sugar as possible
because it's impacting your baby's
development. So, ideally,
you don't have to use the vinegar hack.
You know, I've often seen people talk
about like an obesity gene and stuff and
ask if obesity is genetic.
>> I guess one of the things I've kind of
deduced from today is that the genetic
component might be that during pregnancy
our mother um had a certain lifestyle or
diet and that increased our
predisposition
to having a different reaction to
certain foods
>> completely and the studies show that. So
in animal studies, when a mom has a lot
of sugar during pregnancy, there's
little epigenetic switches in the baby's
DNA that encourage fat storage.
>> Oh, okay.
>> So why is that? Because if you eat
sugar, your baby's getting sugar in his
bloodstream. And how does the baby
protect himself from high sugar levels?
By turning the sugar into fat. So by
eating a high sugar diet, you're sending
a little postcard to your baby be like,
"Hey baby, you're going to be born into
a world with a lot of sugar. So, become
really good at turning that sugar into
fat to protect yourself. And this is why
we see across studies on tens of
thousands of moms that the higher a
mom's glucose levels during pregnancy,
the more fat mass a baby is born with.
[snorts]
>> Higher glucose during pregnancy, baby
had to turn that glucose to fat to
protect himself. So, he's born with more
fat mass. And it doesn't just stop after
birth. Studies show that this continues.
Babies born to high glucose mothers are
more likely to have obesity as children,
as teenagers, and as adults. So, the
cycle continues. The programming of
storing a lot of fat continues even
though they're no longer connected to
their mom's bloodstream.
>> In the process of producing this book,
did did you think much about the
evolutionary sort of backstory of where
we came from and how our ancestors used
to eat? Did you
>> consider, I don't know, the orangutang,
where we share most of our DNA? I think
it's like 98% of our DNA.
>> Because if you look at sort of what we
used to eat, meaning nutrient-rich organ
meats and not just like a chicken
breast, which is just muscle, which is
actually very poor nutrients. If you
think about how we didn't used to eat
processed foods, we had a diet that was
much more conducive to baby having more
of what he needed in the womb. Today,
our food system is failing us. We're all
deprived of proper nutrition with what
we're eating with all these
ultrarocessed foods, and that includes
pregnant moms. So, I tried to write a
book that was going to help people
navigate this very toxic food landscape
to see these four simple things they
could do to try to optimize a little bit
what the baby was getting. But it's a
lot to think about and also being
pregnant comes with, I think, innate
pressure. Like I felt pressure during
pregnancy. I'm like, man, I'm making
another human like this is a lot. And
then you're bombarded by messages online
and Instagram what to do, what not to
do. And it feels like whatever you do,
you feel guilty.
>> Mhm. [clears throat] So, I'm hoping this
book gives clear science, scientific
evidence to help people navigate that
pressure. But listen, I just want babies
to be healthy. Like, I want my baby to
be healthy. I want everybody's baby to
be healthy. I want moms to feel as
little stress as possible. And that's
just the truth. So, I'm hoping that this
book brings a little bit of reassurance
and light in this complicated world we
live in.
Stress is something we haven't talked
about, but I guess that also is an
important factor in this the story of
raising a healthy child.
>> I was extremely stressed my entire
pregnancy because of my miscarriage.
Like I probably the nine months of my
pregnancy with my son were the nine most
anxious months of my life. And that's
probably not very good for my baby. But
hey, you do what you can, you know? I I
tried everything to reduce my stress
levels. I just couldn't. I was so
nervous about losing the pregnancy.
>> You tried everything?
>> Yeah, I mean everything. I didn't take
anxiety medication, but I was, you know,
doing yoga and breath work and working
out and talking to my therapist and blah
blah blah, but I was still anxious
because I really didn't want to lose the
pregnancy and I was scared I would.
Were you smiling?
>> But you didn't.
>> No, I didn't.
>> Yeah. And you have a happy, healthy
>> Yeah.
>> little baby.
>> You want to have more babies?
>> I would love to, but man, now it's like
logistics. like, okay, so I'm doing this
project and that project and this work
thing. So, where can I find nine months
plus 6 months where I can't really work
[laughter]
>> in in this crazy schedule that I create
for myself? By the way, I'm I'm I just
love my work. So, I'm always planning
new things.
>> When you look at products in the
supermarket,
>> I think we all have a different thing we
go straight to on the label. Yeah.
>> You know, sometimes people go to
calories, sometimes they look at
protein, sometimes they're looking at is
it gluten-free, sometimes they look at
the carbohydrates or the sugars. What do
you look for?
>> Ingredients. I go straight to the
ingredients list. Yeah,
>> because in the ingredients list, things
are ordered by weight. So, the first
ingredient is going to be what there is
the most of in that food.
>> Oh, I had no idea.
>> Yeah. So, they're ordered by weight. So,
if there's sugar or any other type of
sweet thing in the first five
ingredients, like dates, like fruit
juice, like molluses, like uh orange
syrup, whatever. I know that's a
dessert. And so I put it in my mind,
okay, this is a food for enjoyment for
dessert. So if you look at the sardines
ingredients, sardine, olive oil, salt,
natural flavor. So I would try to look
for one that doesn't have natural flavor
cuz I don't know what that means. I
don't think it's necessary. But as you
can see, there's no sugar in here. So
this is not dessert. This sardine can is
not dessert. [laughter]
>> Isn't that helpful?
>> Cuz I often just look at the back of
labels and I just go straight for the
carbs and sugar level.
>> Really?
>> Yeah. I don't know why I always look at
the the sugar level. I think it's cuz
I've done keto for a little while. So,
it
>> kind of depends though because if you're
looking at like carbon sugars for a pack
of um table sugar versus
I don't know like a
>> protein shake.
>> Yeah, a protein shake. I mean, it's it's
a helpful place to look. That's also
where I look because carbs carbs and
sugars will tell you a lot about what
the food is going to do to you. But
also, it depends on the ratio, right? If
there's a lot of protein also, then
having carbs in there is not going to
create that big of a glucose spike. If
it's a product that has just carbs, then
yes,
>> a lot of people look at the calories.
>> Yeah. But calories are a very bad way of
assessing a food because two foods can
have the exact same number of calories
and be completely different in terms of
what they do to your body. So an avocado
and a donut, both 200 calories,
vastly different impact. It's like
saying two books are the same because
they have the same number of pages.
>> Calories and pages tell you nothing
about what's inside the food or inside
the book. We have to learn about
molecules, which is why your reflex of
going to carbs and sugars is much
smarter because you're seeing what's
actually going to happen when you eat
the food. For example, avocado and
donut. The avocado mostly fat, fiber,
going to keep your glucose levels nice
and steady, going to give your food
healthy fat, your body healthy fats.
Donut mostly sugars is going to create a
big glucose spike. Inflammation, aging,
crash, cravings, fatigue, it's going to
have a vastly different impact on your
body. So only looking at your diet
through the lens of calories is a very
bad idea because two diets can have the
exact same number of calories and you
can have a completely different
experience of life depending on what
you're actually eating.
>> And what's your um diet generally? Like
what time do you eat in the morning? Do
you do fasting or anything like that?
>> So no I don't do fasting. So I'll have
breakfast in the morning always eggs.
Right now my my current kick is a bacon
and egg quesadilla. super good.
>> Um, with coffee, always with whole milk
that I love. Then for lunch, I'll have a
veggie starter if I'm having some
carbheavy lunch or I'll have like a
collared green chicken wrap with avocado
and peppers.
>> Mhm.
>> After lunch, I always usually have
something sweet because I love sugar. I
love sugar. So, I'll have like some
chocolate or a nice cookie that I had
and then I'll try to move my body if I
can. This is the main thing I can get a
bit difficult. And then the evening is
when I have most carbs. I love having
rice or pasta at night. It just makes me
feel cozy.
>> What time?
>> As early as I can. I'm very unfrench in
that way. If I could have dinner at 5:00
p.m., I would. Um, but I would have no
more social life. [laughter]
So, maybe after my baby's in bed, so
like 7:30, 8.
>> And are you having vinegar before that
meal?
>> Um, it depends. If I don't have a veggie
starter, yeah, if I have a veggie
starter, I'll put some vinegar on the
veggie starter.
>> What else are you working on? What's
next for you, Jesse? One is mental
health because I have a deep passion for
mental health. It's the reason I got
into glucose in the first place. So, I
want to see if I can start putting
together some mental health hacks based
on studies. This is something that's
been in the back of my mind for a long
time and I'm trying to find the time to
go there. And I'm working on new types
of content. I'm I'm just endlessly
inspired by what I'm able to to do and
how lucky I am to like dream up
something and be able to to put it
together. So, lots of surprises coming.
>> As you know, we have a closing [snorts]
treat on this podcast where the last
guest leaves a question for the next.
>> I do know.
>> And the question left for you is, if you
could make the world a better place in
one way, what would you change? How
could you make the most impact?
>> I would maybe outlaw food marketing or
maybe outlaw
sugary breakfast foods. something about
making very bad foods that are that look
healthy, making those illegal. It would
be illegal to put any health claims on a
product. For example, no added sugars or
vegan or gluten-free. I would outlaw all
of those to help people navigate a bit
better. Or if I could have like one
magic wand to do one thing, maybe I
would say no more fruit juice in
schools. Even that would be really cool.
>> Nine months that count forever. How your
pregnancy diet shapes your baby's
future. What is the um what is the
closing message, Jesse, for for pregnant
couples and um anybody who was who was
once conceived themselves? [laughter]
>> The closing message is pregnancy is
complicated. The food system we live in
is complicated and toxic. And this is a
very simple four-step trimester by
trimer plan that doesn't require a lot
of money that is going to help you give
your baby the best foundation during
development.
Do you think there's things from a
legislation perspective that can be
done? You know,
>> yeah, the most important is for the
system, the support system around the
moms to help make it really easy for
them to eat eggs and sardines and
vegetables and healthy fats. We have to
all support moms because they're
creating the next generation and they
they can't change the food industry.
Things have to shift around them to make
it easier. I think it's also about
education. For example, choline, you
know, I said 90% of moms are not getting
enough. And when people run surveys to
see whether doctors are talking to moms
about choline, only 6% of doctors are
talking to moms about choline during
pregnancy. So there's also just a big
information gap somewhere. Things are
broken in lots of different areas. And
maybe it's like, oh, moms can't handle
it. Or maybe it's just that doctors are
focused on very short-term like
emergency things to manage. Maybe they
don't have time to talk about nutrition.
I don't know. But there's a real gap.
And I'm hoping this book will fill it.
I'm hoping like this is pie in the sky.
Like why don't we prescribe nine months
that count forever to every parent that
gets pregnant.
>> This will be a very good nutrition guide
for them and very simple.
>> I have many people in my life that are
currently pregnant, people that are very
very close to me. And um it's funny
because you hear the conversations
they're having and it does kind of
sometimes feel like horoscopes and
guessing.
No offense [laughter] to people that
love horoscopes, but it does feel a
little bit sort of pie in the sky. Yeah,
I know. this is you don't know
your sign. I'm Virgo, I think.
>> Okay. Okay. Okay.
>> People blame. I knew he was a Virgo.
[laughter]
I'm not really on Sagittarius,
but it is it's it's confusing because
there's so much information out there.
So, it's wonderful to have a manual like
this that demystifies an area where
there's just so much information coming
at you and there's so much conflicting
information. And your book is so
importantly based on scientific
consensus and and facts and studies
versus just experience alone. And I
think that's why it's so important. And
whenever the time comes that me and my
fiance are fortunate enough hopefully to
have our own baby, um we're both going
to reread this book because it's hard to
find books on this subject that are so
succinct that break it down stage by
stage. And uh you as an author, you'll
have a wonderful way of making things
accessible. Even in this conversation,
you you I don't need to ask you to
define complicated words and that's
reflected in all the work that you do
and all everything that you write. So,
highly recommend. Great book to buy for
someone as a gift if you just found out
that someone in your life is pregnant,
but also a great book to buy for you and
your partner if you're going through
your own pregnancy journey or thinking
about getting pregnant soon.
>> It's also a good book to buy for your
kids for all the grandparents to be out
there. It's a good book to buy for your
kids if they're going to have a baby
soon.
>> Amen, Jesse. Thank you.
>> Thank you so much for having me back,
Stephen. It's always a pleasure.
>> YouTube have this new crazy algorithm
where they know exactly what video you
would like to watch next based on AI and
all of your viewing behavior. And the
algorithm says that this video is the
perfect video for you. It's different
for everybody looking right now. Check
this video out and I bet you you might
love